Improve the annotation doc of the OTel starter (#4806)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/zero-code/java/spring-boot-starter/annotations.md

    }
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}} The OpenTelemetry annotations use Spring
AOP based on proxys.

These annotations work only for the methods of the proxy. You can learn more in
the
[Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/core/aop/proxying.html).

In the following example, the `WithSpan` annotation won't do anything when the
GET endpoint is called:

```java
@RestController
public class MyControllerManagedBySpring {

    @GetMapping("/ping")
    public void aMethod() {
        anotherMethod();
    }

    @WithSpan
    public void anotherMethod() {
    }
}
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

To be able to use the OpenTelemetry annotations, you have to add the Spring Boot
Starter AOP dependency to your project: {{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}} <dependencies> <dependency>
<groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
<artifactId>spring-boot-starter-aop</artifactId> </dependency> </dependencies>
{{% /tab %}} {{% tab header="Kotlin" lang=Kotlin %}} dependencies {
implementation("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-aop") }

> {{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}

Reviewer: i think the formatter might have messed this up a bit

this is what the [preview](https://deploy-preview-4806--opentelemetry.netlify.app/docs/zero-code/java/spring-boot-starter/annotations/) looks like currently:

<img width="1009" alt="image" src="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/assets/7630696/f8c306d9-58ad-4ceb-8c2e-783f65e3b707">

------

Github is making it difficult for me to post the suggested code change because of all the backticks, but this seemed to work for me:

Preview from local:

<img width="1006" alt="image" src="https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/assets/7630696/b6346aee-6aeb-47fc-b632-7d9a59d1661c">

```plaintext
{{< tabpane text=true >}} {{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}}

```
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-aop</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

{{% /tab %}} {{% tab header="Kotlin" lang=Kotlin %}}

```kotlin
dependencies {
  implementation("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-aop")
}
```

{{% /tab %}} {{< /tabpane >}}
```

```java
import io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.annotations.SpanAttribute;
import io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.annotations.WithSpan;

    @WithSpan
    public void tracedMethod(@SpanAttribute parameter) {
    }
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}
The OpenTelemetry annotations use Spring AOP based on proxys. 

These annotations work only for the methods of the proxy. You can learn more in the [Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/core/aop/proxying.html).

In the following example, the `WithSpan` annotation won't do anything when the GET endpoint is called:

```java
@RestController
public class MyControllerManagedBySpring {
  
    @GetMapping("/ping")
    public void aMethod() {
        anotherMethod();
    }

    @WithSpan
    public void anotherMethod() {
    }
}
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

To be able to use the OpenTelemetry annotations, you have to add the Spring Boot Starter AOP dependency to your project:
{{< tabpane text=true >}} 
{{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>

>     <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-aop</artifactId>

Reviewer 2: will be fixed with https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java-instrumentation/pull/11775

---
title: Annotations
weight: 50
cSpell:ignore: proxys
---

For most users, the out-of-the-box instrumentation is completely sufficient and
nothing more has to be done. Sometimes, however, users wish to create
[spans](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans) for their own custom code without
doing too much code change.

> If you add the `WithSpan` annotation to a method, the method will be wrapped in a span. The `SpanAttribute` annotation allows you to capture the method arguments as attributes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you add the `WithSpan` annotation to a method, the method is wrapped in a span. The `SpanAttribute` annotation allows you to capture the method arguments as attributes.
```

```java
import io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.annotations.SpanAttribute;
import io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.annotations.WithSpan;

    @WithSpan
    public void tracedMethod(@SpanAttribute parameter) {
    }
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}
The OpenTelemetry annotations use Spring AOP based on proxys. 

> These annotations only work for the methods of the proxy. You can learn more in the [Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/core/aop/proxying.html).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These annotations work only for the methods of the proxy. You can learn more in the [Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/core/aop/proxying.html).
```

In the following example, the `WithSpan` annotation won't do anything when the GET endpoint is called:

```java
@RestController
public class MyControllerManagedBySpring {
  
    @GetMapping("/ping")
    public void aMethod() {
        anotherMethod();
    }

    @WithSpan
    public void anotherMethod() {
    }
}
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

> {{< tabpane text=true >}} {{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}}
> To be able to use the OpenTelemetry annotations, you have to add the Spring Boot Starter AOP dependency to your project:
> 
> ```xml
> <dependencies>
>   <dependency>
>     <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
>     <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-aop</artifactId>
>   </dependency>
> </dependencies>
> ```
> 
> ```kotlin
> dependencies {
>   implementation("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-aop")
> }
> ```

Reviewer 3: One of the CI failures was caused by a missing tabpane closure. I added that closure along with a second tab, but if this isn't what you intended, please disregard. We should also double-check this renders correctly once the preview is working.

```suggestion
To be able to use the OpenTelemetry annotations, you have to add the Spring Boot Starter AOP dependency to your project:
{{< tabpane text=true >}} 
{{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-aop</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab header="Kotlin" lang=Kotlin %}}
dependencies {
  implementation("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-aop")
}
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}
```

{{% /alert %}}

You can disable the OpenTelemetry annotations by setting the `otel.instrumentation.annotations.enabled` property to `false`.

You can customize the span by using the elements of the `WithSpan` annotation:

| Name    | Type       | Description           | Default Value       |
|---------|------------|-----------------------|---------------------|
| `value` | `String`   | Span name             | ClassName.Method    |
| `kind`  | `SpanKind` | Span kind of the span | `SpanKind.INTERNAL` |

> You can set the attribute name from the 'value' element of the 'SpanAttribute' annotation:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can set the attribute name from the `value` element of the `SpanAttribute` annotation:
```

---
title: Annotations
weight: 50
cSpell:ignore: proxys
---

For most users, the out-of-the-box instrumentation is completely sufficient and
nothing more has to be done. Sometimes, however, users wish to create
[spans](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#spans) for their own custom code without

> doing too much code change.

Reviewer: I know you didn't change this as part of this PR, so maybe this could be addressed in a separate PR, but I think the readability could be improved for this sentence.
```suggestion
needing to make many code changes.
```

    public void tracedMethod(@SpanAttribute parameter) {
    }
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}} The OpenTelemetry annotations use Spring
AOP based on proxys.

These annotations work only for the methods of the proxy. You can learn more in
the
[Spring documentation](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/core/aop/proxying.html).

In the following example, the `WithSpan` annotation won't do anything when the
GET endpoint is called:

```java
@RestController
public class MyControllerManagedBySpring {

    @GetMapping("/ping")
    public void aMethod() {
        anotherMethod();
    }

    @WithSpan
    public void anotherMethod() {
    }
}
```

{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert title="Note" color="info" %}}

To be able to use the OpenTelemetry annotations, you have to add the Spring Boot
Starter AOP dependency to your project:

{{< tabpane text=true >}} {{% tab header="Maven (`pom.xml`)" lang=Maven %}}

```xml
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>>spring-boot-starter-aop</artifactId>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
```

{{% /tab %}} {{% tab header="Gradle (`gradle.build`)" lang=Gradle %}}

```kotlin
dependencies {

> implementation("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-aop") }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  implementation("org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-aop")
}
```
